= Text of Soros' speech at the World Economic Forum 2019 at Davos

From: https://www.wired.com/story/mortal-danger-chinas-push-into-ai

[source]
----
I want to use my time tonight to warn the world about an unprecedented danger
that’s threatening the very survival of open societies.

Last year when I stood before you I spent most of my time analyzing the
nefarious role of the IT monopolies. This is what I said: “An alliance is
emerging between authoritarian states and the large data rich IT monopolies that
bring together nascent systems of corporate surveillance with an already
developing system of state sponsored surveillance. This may well result in a web
of totalitarian control the likes of which not even George Orwell could have
imagined.”

Tonight I want to call attention to the mortal danger facing open societies from
the instruments of control that machine learning and artificial intelligence can
put in the hands of repressive regimes. I’ll focus on China, where Xi Jinping
wants a one-party state to reign supreme.

A lot of things have happened since last year and I’ve learned a lot about the
shape that totalitarian control is going to take in China.

All the rapidly expanding information available about a person is going to be
consolidated in a centralized database to create a “social credit system.” Based
on that data, people will be evaluated by algorithms that will determine whether
they pose a threat to the one-party state. People will then be treated
accordingly.

The social credit system is not yet fully operational, but it’s clear where it’s
heading. It will subordinate the fate of the individual to the interests of the
one-party state in ways unprecedented in history.

I find the social credit system frightening and abhorrent. Unfortunately, some
Chinese find it rather attractive because it provides information and services
that aren’t currently available and can also protect law-abiding citizens
against enemies of the state.

China isn’t the only authoritarian regime in the world, but it’s undoubtedly the
wealthiest, strongest and most developed in machine learning and artificial
intelligence. This makes Xi Jinping the most dangerous opponent of those who
believe in the concept of open society. But Xi isn’t alone. Authoritarian
regimes are proliferating all over the world and if they succeed, they will
become totalitarian.

As the founder of the Open Society Foundations, I’ve devoted my life to fighting
totalizing, extremist ideologies, which falsely claim that the ends justify the
means. I believe that the desire of people for freedom can’t be repressed
forever. But I also recognize that open societies are profoundly endangered at
present.

What I find particularly disturbing is that the instruments of control developed
by artificial intelligence give an inherent advantage to authoritarian regimes
over open societies. For them, instruments of control provide a useful tool; for
open societies, they pose a mortal threat.

I use “open society” as shorthand for a society in which the rule of law
prevails as opposed to rule by a single individual and where the role of the
state is to protect human rights and individual freedom. In my personal view, an
open society should pay special attention to those who suffer from
discrimination or social exclusion and those who can’t defend themselves.

By contrast, authoritarian regimes use whatever instruments of control they
possess to maintain themselves in power at the expense of those whom they
exploit and suppress.

How can open societies be protected if these new technologies give authoritarian
regimes a built-in advantage? That’s the question that preoccupies me. And it
should also preoccupy all those who prefer to live in an open society.

Open societies need to regulate companies that produce instruments of control,
while authoritarian regimes can declare them “national champions.” That’s what
has enabled some Chinese state-owned companies to catch up with and even surpass
the multinational giants.

This, of course, isn’t the only problem that should concern us today. For
instance, man-made climate change threatens the very survival of our
civilization. But the structural disadvantage that confronts open societies is a
problem which has preoccupied me and I’d like to share with you my ideas on how
to deal with it.

My deep concern for this issue arises out of my personal history. I was born in
Hungary in 1930 and I’m Jewish. I was 13 years old when the Nazis occupied
Hungary and started deporting Jews to extermination camps.

I was very fortunate because my father understood the nature of the Nazi regime
and arranged false identity papers and hiding places for all members of his
family, and for a number of other Jews as well. Most of us survived.

The year 1944 was the formative experience of my life. I learned at an early age
how important it is what kind of political regime prevails. When the Nazi regime
was replaced by Soviet occupation I left Hungary as soon as I could and found
refuge in England.

At the London School of Economics I developed my conceptual framework under the
influence of my mentor, Karl Popper. That framework proved to be unexpectedly
useful when I found myself a job in the financial markets. The framework had
nothing to do with finance, but it is based on critical thinking. This allowed
me to analyze the deficiencies of the prevailing theories guiding institutional
investors. I became a successful hedge fund manager and I prided myself on being
the best paid critic in the world.

Running a hedge fund was very stressful. When I had made more money than I
needed for myself or my family, I underwent a kind of midlife crisis. Why should
I kill myself to make more money? I reflected long and hard on what I really
cared about and in 1979 I set up the Open Society Fund. I defined its objectives
as helping to open up closed societies, reducing the deficiencies of open
societies and promoting critical thinking.

My first efforts were directed at undermining the apartheid system in South
Africa. Then I turned my attention to opening up the Soviet system. I set up a
joint venture with the Hungarian Academy of Science, which was under Communist
control, but its representatives secretly sympathized with my efforts. This
arrangement succeeded beyond my wildest dreams. I got hooked on what I like to
call “political philanthropy.” That was in 1984.

In the years that followed, I tried to replicate my success in Hungary and in
other Communist countries. I did rather well in the Soviet empire, including the
Soviet Union itself, but in China it was a different story.

My first effort in China looked rather promising. It involved an exchange of
visits between Hungarian economists who were greatly admired in the Communist
world, and a team from a newly established Chinese think tank which was eager to
learn from the Hungarians.

Based on that initial success, I proposed to Chen Yizi, the leader of the think
tank, to replicate the Hungarian model in China. Chen obtained the support of
Premier Zhao Ziyang and his reform-minded policy secretary Bao Tong.

A joint venture called the China Fund was inaugurated in October 1986. It was an
institution unlike any other in China. On paper, it had complete autonomy.

Bao Tong was its champion. But the opponents of radical reforms, who were
numerous, banded together to attack him. They claimed that I was a CIA agent and
asked the internal security agency to investigate. To protect himself, Zhao
Ziyang replaced Chen Yizi with a high-ranking official in the external security
police. The two organizations were co-equal and they couldn’t interfere in each
other’s affairs.

I approved this change because I was annoyed with Chen Yizi for awarding too
many grants to members of his own institute and I was unaware of the political
infighting behind the scenes. But applicants to the China Fund soon noticed that
the organization had come under the control of the political police and started
to stay away. Nobody had the courage to explain to me the reason for it.

Eventually, a Chinese grantee visited me in New York and told me, at
considerable risk to himself. Soon thereafter, Zhao Ziyang was removed from
power and I used that excuse to close the foundation. This happened just before
the Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989 and it left a “black spot” on the record
of the people associated with the foundation. They went to great length to clear
their names and eventually they succeeded.

In retrospect, it’s clear that I made a mistake in trying to establish a
foundation which operated in ways that were alien to people in China. At that
time, giving a grant created a sense of mutual obligation between the donor and
recipient and obliged both of them to remain loyal to each other forever.

So much for history. Let me now turn to the events that occurred in the last
year, some of which surprised me.

When I first started going to China, I met many people in positions of power who
were fervent believers in the principles of open society. In their youth they
had been deported to the countryside to be re-educated, often suffering
hardships far greater than mine in Hungary. But they survived and we had much in
common. We had all been on the receiving end of a dictatorship.

They were eager to learn about Karl Popper’s thoughts on the open society. While
they found the concept very appealing, their interpretation remained somewhat
different from mine. They were familiar with Confucian tradition, but there was
no tradition of voting in China. Their thinking remained hierarchical and
carried a built-in respect for high office. I, on the other hand I was more
egalitarian and wanted everyone to have a vote.

So, I wasn’t surprised when Xi Jinping ran into serious opposition at home; but
I was surprised by the form it took. At last summer’s leadership convocation at
the seaside resort of Beidaihe, Xi Jinping was apparently taken down a peg or
two. Although there was no official communique, rumor had it that the
convocation disapproved of the abolition of term limits and the cult of
personality that Xi had built around himself.

It’s important to realize that such criticisms were only a warning to Xi about
his excesses, but did not reverse the lifting of the two-term limit. Moreover,
“The Thought of Xi Jinping,” which he promoted as his distillation of Communist
theory was elevated to the same level as the “Thought of Chairman Mao.” So Xi
remains the supreme leader, possibly for lifetime. The ultimate outcome of the
current political infighting remains unresolved.

I’ve been concentrating on China, but open societies have many more enemies,
Putin’s Russia foremost among them. And the most dangerous scenario is when
these enemies conspire with, and learn from, each other on how to better oppress
their people.

The question poses itself, what can we do to stop them?

The first step is to recognize the danger. That’s why I’m speaking out tonight.
But now comes the difficult part. Those of us who want to preserve the open
society must work together and form an effective alliance. We have a task that
can’t be left to governments.

History has shown that even governments that want to protect individual freedom
have many other interests and they also give precedence to the freedom of their
own citizens over the freedom of the individual as a general principle.

My Open Society Foundations are dedicated to protecting human rights, especially
for those who don’t have a government defending them. When we started four
decades ago there were many governments which supported our efforts but their
ranks have thinned out. The US and Europe were our strongest allies, but now
they’re preoccupied with their own problems.

Therefore, I want to focus on what I consider the most important question for
open societies: what will happen in China?

The question can be answered only by the Chinese people. All we can do is to
draw a sharp distinction between them and Xi Jinping. Since Xi has declared his
hostility to open society, the Chinese people remain our main source of hope.

And there are, in fact, grounds for hope. As some China experts have explained
to me, there is a Confucian tradition, according to which advisors of the
emperor are expected to speak out when they strongly disagree with one of his
actions or decrees, even that may result in exile or execution.

This came as a great relief to me when I had been on the verge of despair. The
committed defenders of open society in China, who are around my age, have mostly
retired and their places have been taken by younger people who are dependent on
Xi Jinping for promotion. But a new political elite has emerged that is willing
to uphold the Confucian tradition. This means that Xi will continue to have a
political opposition at home.

Xi presents China as a role model for other countries to emulate, but he’s
facing criticism not only at home but also abroad. His Belt and Road Initiative
has been in operation long enough to reveal its deficiencies.

It was designed to promote the interests of China, not the interests of the
recipient countries; its ambitious infrastructure projects were mainly financed
by loans, not by grants, and foreign officials were often bribed to accept them.
Many of these projects proved to be uneconomic.

The iconic case is in Sri Lanka. China built a port that serves its strategic
interests. It failed to attract sufficient commercial traffic to service the
debt and enabled China to take possession of the port. There are several similar
cases elsewhere and they’re causing widespread resentment.

Malaysia is leading the pushback. The previous government headed by Najib Razak
sold out to China but in May 2018 Razak was voted out of office by a coalition
led by Mahathir Mohamed. Mahathir immediately stopped several big infrastructure
projects and is currently negotiating with China how much compensation Malaysia
will still have to pay.

The situation is not as clear-cut in Pakistan, which has been the largest
recipient of Chinese investments. The Pakistani army is fully beholden to China
but the position of Imran Khan who became prime minister last August is more
ambivalent. At the beginning of 2018, China and Pakistan announced grandiose
plans in military cooperation. By the end of the year, Pakistan was in a deep
financial crisis. But one thing became evident: China intends to use the Belt
and Road Initiative for military purposes as well.

All these setbacks have forced Xi Jinping to modify his attitude toward the Belt
and Road Initiative. In September, he announced that “vanity projects” will be
shunned in favor of more carefully conceived initiatives and in October, the
People’s Daily warned that projects should serve the interests of the recipient
countries.

Customers are now forewarned and several of them, ranging from Sierra Leone to
Ecuador, are questioning or renegotiating projects.

Most importantly, the US government has now identified China as a “strategic
rival.” President Trump is notoriously unpredictable, but this decision was the
result of a carefully prepared plan. Since then, the idiosyncratic behavior of
Trump has been largely superseded by a China policy adopted by the agencies of
the administration and overseen by Asian affairs advisor of the National
Security Council Matt Pottinger and others. The policy was outlined in a seminal
speech by Vice President Mike Pence on October 4th.

Even so, declaring China a strategic rival is too simplistic. China is an
important global actor. An effective policy towards China can’t be reduced to a
slogan.

It needs to be far more sophisticated, detailed and practical; and it must
include an American economic response to the Belt and Road Initiative. The
Pottinger plan doesn’t answer the question whether its ultimate goal is to level
the playing field or to disengage from China altogether.

Xi Jinping fully understood the threat that the new US policy posed for his
leadership. He gambled on a personal meeting with President Trump at the G20
meeting in Buenos Aires. In the meantime, the danger of global trade war
escalated and the stock market embarked on a serious sell-off in December. This
created problems for Trump who had concentrated all his efforts on the 2018
midterm elections. When Trump and Xi met, both sides were eager for a deal. No
wonder that they reached one, but it’s very inconclusive: a ninety-day truce.

In the meantime, there are clear indications that a broad based economic decline
is in the making in China, which is affecting the rest of the world. A global
slowdown is the last thing the market wants to see.

The unspoken social contract in China is built on steadily rising living
standards. If the decline in the Chinese economy and stock market is severe
enough, this social contract may be undermined and even the business community
may turn against Xi Jinping. Such a downturn could also sound the death knell of
the Belt and Road Initiative, because Xi may run out of resources to continue
financing so many lossmaking investments.

On the question of global internet governance, there’s an undeclared struggle
between the West and China. China wants to dictate rules and procedures that
govern the digital economy by dominating the developing world with its new
platforms and technologies. This is a threat to the freedom of the Internet and
indirectly open society itself.

Last year I still believed that China ought to be more deeply embedded in the
institutions of global governance, but since then Xi Jinping’s behavior has
changed my opinion. My present view is that instead of waging a trade war with
practically the whole world, the US should focus on China. Instead of letting
ZTE and Huawei off lightly, it needs to crack down on them. If these companies
came to dominate the 5G market, they would present an unacceptable security risk
for the rest of the world.

Regrettably, President Trump seems to be following a different course: make
concessions to China and declare victory while renewing his attacks on US
allies. This is liable to undermine the US policy objective of curbing China’s
abuses and excesses.

To conclude, let me summarize the message I’m delivering tonight. My key point
is that the combination of repressive regimes with IT monopolies endows those
regimes with a built-in advantage over open societies. The instruments of
control are useful tools in the hands of authoritarian regimes, but they pose a
mortal threat to open societies.

China is not the only authoritarian regime in the world but it is the
wealthiest, strongest and technologically most advanced. This makes Xi Jinping
the most dangerous opponent of open societies. That’s why it’s so important to
distinguish Xi Jinping’s policies from the aspirations of the Chinese people.
The social credit system, if it became operational, would give Xi total control
over the people. Since Xi is the most dangerous enemy of the open society, we
must pin our hopes on the Chinese people, and especially on the business
community and a political elite willing to uphold the Confucian tradition.

This doesn’t mean that those of us who believe in the open society should remain
passive. The reality is that we are in a Cold War that threatens to turn into a
hot one. On the other hand, if Xi and Trump were no longer in power, an
opportunity would present itself to develop greater cooperation between the two
cyber-superpowers.

It is possible to dream of something similar to the United Nations Treaty that
arose out of the Second World War. This would be the appropriate ending to the
current cycle of conflict between the US and China. It would reestablish
international cooperation and allow open societies to flourish. That sums up my
message.
----
